## On what's expected of young scientists

In a world that is getting more globalized day after day, where artificial intelligence is getting better and more reliable, and where information is more available and immediate than ever, young scientists and prospective researchers are standing at the feet of a mountain that has never been so steep. Graduate education offerings have never before experienced such a decline, in the context of the student pool being at its peak of competitiveness and education. As a result, the bar keeps getting higher and higher, the pace keeps getting faster and faster, and students are expected to partake in more and more activities that "exhibit exceptional research potential". In this essay, I will explore some problems like the tail-chasing of professional experience (which I'll explain in a second), the uncertainty in the future of academia or the sell-out of what it really is to do science.

I ought to explain what I mean by "tail-chasing". As a dog who tries to catch his own tail, students and early-career researchers now often take part in the pointless chasing of industry and research internships, when these in turn require professional experience, making them run in circles after something that's simply out of reach unless there's some kind of boost as, for example, some kind of connection. This then leads to inequality, as students with a broader network of connections often get a first contact sooner as opposed to students with lesser opportunities, who may in turn be equally or better prepared. This is of course how it's always been in industry, but that should never happen in academia. This framework hence clearly rewards students who are better positioned socially which leads to the rise of pseudo-intellectualism in the scientific community, while simultaneously creating a feedback loop that makes the well-connected and resourceful stronger and dilutes the good student into the crowd. There shouldn't be a problem with the resourceful making their own way, I agree, but true meritocracy shouldn't depend on that. True meritocracy should depend on whether the candidate is really the best man or woman for the studentship.
